· Tomas Asuncion – Grandfather of the Tizon family. Offers Lola the deal to become a slave for the family and gives her to his daughter.
· Alex Tizon – Narrator of the story.
· Lola – The woman from the Philippines that is brought into slavery as a method to escape an unfavorable marriage.
· Mother – The daughter of Tomas Asuncion. Inherited his traits and mentality as a Motrona.
· Father – Patriarch of the family who is the main reason to move to America. Has an advanced education but his breakthrough position in America seems to be his only claim he has to higher society.
· Arthur – The eldest of the Tizon children by 8 years. The first person in the narrator’s life to refer to Lola as a slave.
· Utusans – “People who take commands”
· Katulongs – “Helpers”
· Kasambahays – “Domestics”
· Matrona – “Giver of commands”?

            Why so specific? “It weighed three and a half pounds” Did he weigh her fuckin ashes, or is this an attempt to show the sad difference between what was and what is? I would’ve put her description before that if this is the case. “She wasn’t kept in leg irons, but she might as well have been.” I wonder if he’s inferring that she has mental restraints, or that the treatment was like that of being done to someone who typically wears leg irons. “we were model immigrants, a poster family.” I think he’s full of shit. Since having read the story several characters don’t believe them that Lola is a family member or whatever excuse they have. I think he’s deluded about the perception of his peers and neighbors of his family. As he continues the article and reveals more facts about his family it becomes apparent to me that a lot of the stand out positives are superficial at the most. “And then I had a slave.” In the literal, no he didn’t. Maybe he means that because of the issues of how dependent Lola is on him and how she is basically “Institutionalized” because of how long she has been a slave. “The scene always stunned me” He talks about the difference between what he remembers of this area and what he sees now. Was this possibly put into the article to represent the way things change from what he knows. “She is my gift to you. I don’t want her.” I do wonder how Alex got this information. I presume from either his parents or Lola, to which I doubt it’s authenticity without it having been through some sort of filter. “Lieutenant Tom” He’s referring to his grandfather by this monicker rather than, “Grandpa Tom” or some similar title. Is he trying to subtly distance himself from his own grandfather and his actions? “My mother, in recounting this story” Well if Alex’s accounting is anything to go by, it would appear that some of the information that he is using for this article did come from his mother, as well as his asking Lola later for her side of the story. “Lieutenant Tom had long been haunted by demons, and in 1951 he silenced them with a .32-caliber slug to his temple.” What a flowery way to say that he killed himself. Is that just a problem that he has? He rewords tragic and horrid events, like keeping a slave in the household, into a more acceptable phrasing? “In many ways she was more of a parent to me then either my mother or my father.” Most likely a true statement, and definitely believable, but possibly also another attempt to separate himself from the actions of others he deems undesirable. “He took on second job” I find it odd that someone with such an advanced degree was taking on, or only looking for, menial labor positions. I feel this further cements the either ignorance, or delusions, that Alex was operating under. “He/she would say in Tagalog” This does add to the cultural separation between Lola and her environment outside the Tizon family, but also the Tizon family from the country they were supposed to integrate into. This is more clearly shown by the continued act of slavery, but these nuances are further proof of their unwillingness to change from the narrator.

Interesting that he compares Lola to Pompey from “The man who shot Liberty Valance” since Pompey was not only a servant, but the person to whom he served in the movie saw him more as an equal. To which you can see evidence of twice in the bar scene.(75) Here are the efforts to conceal the lie that is their perceived life. What a weird term for someone’s father, or the father of a family, by calling someone a “Patriarch”. Was that really how someone would be referred to in their culture, or was that just for the story and the themes of Patriarchal Societies? (77) Billy isn’t an idiot. He knows something is wrong and the façade that the Tizon family is peddling is a bunch of shit. (93) I wonder if he means that losing her would be devastating to him emotionally and that’s why he was an additional reason behind his hesitance. It seems strange to include this in a paragraph about being so ashamed of owning a slave, as well as starting this paragraph about the repercussions of admitting to their secret.(95-99) He confesses that she shouldn’t even be in the country due to the permit being attached to his father’s former job only. Not only was there legal precedence for her to go back, but Lola herself has voiced her wishes to return to her homeland as well. I’m starting to get the feeling that this article is partially admittance and blame shift as well as just telling the story.(103) Yeah I don’t believe that his father was of the higher echelons of education with this constant odd job working rather than career pursuit with his supposed degree. Not to mention the drinking, womanizing, gambling, etc.(107) And the conclusion to the dead-beat saga. Abandoned his children, wife, what remains of his moral compass, and didn’t even pay child support just to fill out the fuckin bingo card.(111) Even when they shared a slave-master relationship, Lola is either in some sort of Stockholm Syndrome with the mother, or the father may have contributed more to the idea of continuing her status of a slave than the story entails.(117) Admitting to his complicit nature and the futility of keeping the family secret. I would have been better to just admit to what he and is family had done early and try to salvage what had been done to Lola.(143) Pot really calling the kettle black there.(151-157) They’ve really created the perfect environment to ensure that nothing changes in the life that has been thrust upon Lola and themselves. This coupled with a complete lack of initiative, results in a hideous cycle of bubbling emotions, talk, and a continuous lack of action. Complacent in their complicit nature.(175) The mother seemed to become more amiable towards her slave once there were less things to take care of and worry about, or possibly she wasn’t feeling as envious of Lola, since her children liked Lola more due to her own poor life choices separating her from her own children. She repeats that she never wanted Lola earlier, so I can infer that she does blame Lola for some the choices, or the situation that she finds herself in. Definitely full of regret.(181) Alex does show his relationship with his mother here as purely a provider to him and his siblings, forgetting that she had social ambitions for her life as well. It does create a even more haunting notion that she continued to have a slave while becoming so social with people that, I presume, wouldn’t have anything to do with her if they knew. It somewhat reminds me of those murder stories of high-functioning sociopaths. She still barely even recognizes Lola as a person, if her writings are anything to go by, and more of just a background entity.(185-201) Unfortunately for Alex, he is far too late to really change the nature that been instilled in Lola. Some progress can be seen as he catches glimpses of her relaxing, but as his own advice points out to himself, “Let her be.”(221) Further proof of the complete robbery of her life where she demonstrates that she doesn’t even recognize her place of origin as being her own.(231) Fuck’s sake that’s depressing. One unfortunate issue with the Tizon family throughout this article is the lack of a strong father figure, and because of this it not only shows in the life they lived but also their outlook on the idea as a whole.