# Summary
Linear Speed - Measures the outside line of the circle, changes with radius
Angular Speed$(\omega)$ - Measures the inside angle, doesn't change with radius
__v__ = speed
__s__ = distance
__t__ = time
$\omega$(Omega)
# Related
Prev - [[3.3 The Unit Circle and Circular Functions]]
Next - [[4.1 Graphs of Sine and Cosine functions]]
# Content

>[!note] Linear Speed and Angular Speed
>The point __P__ moves at a constant speed along a circle of radius __r__ and center __O__. The measure of how fast __P__ is changing is called _linear speed_.
>
>Let v = speed, then speed = $\frac{distance}{time}$
>Or also written as $v=\frac{s}{t}$
>
>Where __s__ = length of the arc traced by point __P__ at time __t__.
>
>Linear speed deals with how far __P__ has moved in a certain time.
>
>As __P__ move along the circle, ray __OP__ rotates around the origin. Since ray __OP__ is the terminal side of $<POB$, the measure of the angle changes as __P__ moves along the circle.
>
>The measure of has $<POB$ is changing is called _Angular Speed_.

>[!note] Difference between speeds
>_Angular speed_ measures the angle, and doesn't change with the radius size.
>
>_Linear speed_ measures the outside line, and changes with the radius size.

>[!info] Linear Speed and Angular Speed cont...
>_Angular speed_, called $\omega$(Omega) is calculated with:
>$$\omega=\frac{\theta}{time}$$ Where the $\theta$ is in radians
>
>$\theta$ is the measure of $<POB$ at time __t__.
>
>_Linear speed_, is calculated  with:
>$$V=\frac{s}{time}$$
>We could also write $V=r\omega$ which relates linear and angular speed.
>Note that this is derived through: $v=\frac{s}{t}=\frac{r\theta}{t}=r*\frac{\theta}{t}=r\omega$

>[!faq]- For r = 30cm, $\omega=\frac{\pi}{10} \frac{rad}{sec}$ , t = 4. (a)Find the angle generated by __P__ in time __t__. (b) Find the distance __P__ traveled along the circle in time __t__. (c) Find the linear speed of __P__.
>
>For (a):
> > Use $\omega=\frac{\theta}{t}$
> > $\frac{\pi}{10}=\frac{\theta}{4}$ Multiply by 4
> > $\theta=\frac{2\pi}{5}$
>
> For (b):
> > Use $s=r\theta$
> > $S=30\left( \frac{2\pi}{5} \right)$
> > $S=12\pi cm$
>
> For (c):
> > Use $v=\frac{s}{t}$
> > $v=\frac{12\pi}{4}$
> > $v=3\pi \frac{cm}{sec}$
>
>Simple, _right?_

>[!faq]- Find the angular speed of the minute hand of a clock.
>The minute hand of a clock makes a full rotation every 60 minutes, which is $2\pi$
>
>Substituting, $\theta=2\pi$ radians and $t=60$ in to the formula $\omega=\frac{\theta}{t}$ gives $\omega=\frac{\pi}{30}$ radians per minute.

>[!faq]- The tires of a bicycle have a radius of 10.0in and are turning at a rate of 205 revolutions per minute. How fast is the bicycle traveling in miles per hour(mph)? _Round to the nearest tenth_.
>First, you need the the __S__ of which the formula is $\frac{r\theta}{d}$ and the outcome is in miles where the question is in inches. So you'll need to tweak the distance of the formula $=\frac{r\theta}{(12)(5280)}$.
>Plug in your info $\frac{10(2\pi)}{(12)(5280)}=\frac{\pi}{3168}$
>
>Now do the same for finding the time $t=\frac{1}{60}$ which is in minutes, so you'll need to tweak the time to be in hours $t=\frac{1}{250(60)}$.
>Plug in your info $t=\frac{1}{(205)(60)}=\frac{1}{12300}$
>
>Finally, use the formula for finding linear speed $v=\frac{s}{t}$ and plug in your info: 
>$$\frac{\frac{\pi}{3168}}{\frac{1}{12300}}$$
>
>Remember to approximate this and you'll get: 12.1975 rounded to 12.2

# References

Recording 2024-03-07