# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[2.4  Solutions and Applications of Right Triangles]]
Next - [[3.1 Radian measurements]]
# Content

>[!note] There are two ways to measure bearing
>
>1st, bearing is measured in a clockwise manner from due _North_.
> >[!faq]- Radar stations __A__ and __B__ are on an east-west line(horizontal) at 8.6km apart. Station __A__ detects a plane at __C__, on a bearing of $53\degree$. Station __B__, at the _same_ time, detects the _same_ plane on a bearing of $307\degree$. Find the distance from __B__ to __C__:
> >Starting from due _north_ with a point for radar station __A__, draw a line from point __A__ going off to the right of that due _north_ line and place a point for __C__ and the angle separating the two is your angle $53\degree$ on the inside.
> >
> >Next, draw a separate point for radar station __B__ and a due _north_ line as well from that point. Then draw a line from point __B__ to that previous point __C__ and a line from point __A__ to point __B__ to and label that line as  8.6km like what was given.
> >
> >With this information you can start solving. The other side of angle __A__ is $37\degree$ because it's a right triangle, so the formula is simple 90 - 53.
> >
> >You can then draw a line straight down from __C__ and separate the distance between point __B__ and __A__ in half. 4.3km for each line.
> >
> >The angles on the opposite side of angle __A__ are also $90\degree$ total so they must be identical.
> >
> >With this information you can use [[Soh Cah Toa]] to find the distance from __B__ to __C__ which is: __BC__ = 5.4km
>
>2nd, bearing starts with either _north_ or _south_, then it tells how many degrees from this ray the second one is in either a _west_ or _east_ direction.
>__N__ or __S__ is drawn 1st
>angle measure 2nd
>__E__ or __W__ is 3rd
> >[!faq]- If you are given __N__ $42\degree$ __E__ and __S__ $15\degree$ __W__
> >You simply start drawing a line _north_(upwards) and then move the angle about $42\degree$ to the _east_(right) and label the angle between.
> >For the other you draw a line _south_(downwards) and then move the angle about $15\degree$ _west_(left) and label the angle between.
> >**INSERT PIC HERE**

>[!faq]- Want to find the height of a building. From a given point on the ground, the angle of elevation to the top of the building is $74.2\degree$. We then walk 35ft further from the building and the angle of elevation is now $51.8\degree$. Find the height of the building.
>Draw a triangle with the spine being **h** and the angle opposite that side to $74.2\degree$.
>Then draw the base continuing for a bit and that extra bit will be the 35ft.
>Draw a line from the end of that line to the top of the first triangle forming a new triangle and that new angle also opposite from **h** is $51.8\degree$.
>You will use TAN to get the **h** for the first triangle as $\tan 74.2\degree=\frac{h}{x}$ with **x** representing the base, but the second triangle you will need to include that +35 to represent the distance that was walked in the question as $\tan 51.8\degree=\frac{h}{x+35}$.
>
>Solve both for **h**:
>$x\tan 74.2=h$ and $(x+35)\tan 51.8=h$
>
>Now fully solve:
>$x\tan74.2=(x+35)\tan 51.8$
>$x\tan 74.2=x\tan 51.8+35\tan51.8$
>$x\tan 74.2-x\tan 51.8=35\tan 51.8$
>$x(\tan 74.2-\tan 51.8)=35\tan 51.8$
>$x=\frac{35\tan51.8}{\tan 74.2-\tan51.8}$
>$x=19.65$
>
>Now just put it into one of the first equations, recommended $x\tan 74.2=h$ as it is simpler:
>$19.65\tan 74.2=69$
>So the height is 69ft. *Easy right?*

# References

Recording 2024-02-27

Recording 2024-02-29