# Summary

# Learning Objectives
- Find a related rate.
- Use related rates to solve real-life problems.
# Related
Prev - [[2.5 Implicit Differentiation]]

Next - [[3.1 Applications of Differentiation]]
# Content

>[!note] Guidelines for solving related-rate problems
>1. Identify all _given_ quantities and quantities _to be determined_. Make a sketch and label the quantities.
>2. Write an equation involving the variables whose rates of change either are given or are to be determined.
>3. Using the [[Chain Rule]], implicitly differentiate each side of the equation _with respect to time t_.
>4. _After_ completing Step 3, substitute into the resulting equation all known values for the variables and their rates of change. Then solve for the required rate of change.

>[!faq]- Assume that _x_ and _y_ are both differentiable functions of _t_. Find the required values of $\frac{dy}{dt}$ and $\frac{dx}{dt}$. $xy=4$ when $x=8$ and $\frac{dx}{dt}=10$
>Remember the product rule and [[chain rule]]: $\frac{dx}{dt}*y+x*\frac{dy}{dt}=0$
>Substitute $\frac{dx}{dt}$ with 10: $$10*y+x*\frac{dy}{dy}$$
>Find _y_: $$8y=4\to y=\frac{4}{8}=\frac{1}{2}$$
>Insert: $$10*\frac{1}{2}+8*\frac{dy}{dt}$$
>Solve for $\frac{dy}{dt}$: $$5+8*\frac{dy}{dt}=0$$
>$$8*\frac{dy}{dt}=-5$$
>$$\frac{dy}{dt}=\frac{-5}{8}$$

>[!faq]- Assume that _x_ and _y_ are both differentiable functions of _t_. Find the required values of $\frac{dy}{dt}$ and $\frac{dx}{dt}$. $x^2+y^2=25$ when $x=4,y=3$ and $\frac{dy}{dt}=-2$
>Set up: $$2x\frac{dx}{dt}+2y\frac{dy}{dt}=0$$
>Divide out 2: $$x\frac{dx}{dt}+y\frac{dy}{dt}=0$$
>Substitute: $$4\frac{dx}{dt}+3(-2)=0$$
>Solve for $\frac{dx}{dt}$: $$4\frac{dx}{dt}-6=0$$
>$$4\frac{dx}{dt}=6$$
>$$\frac{dx}{dt}=\frac{6}{4}$$
>$$\frac{dx}{dt}=\frac{3}{2}$$

>[!faq]- All edges of a cube are expanding at a rate of 6 centimeters per second. How fast is the surface area changing when each edge is: (a) 2 centimeters (b) 10 centimeters
>Set up the equation: $$\frac{dx}{dt}=6cm/\sec$$
>$$A=6x^2$$
>Power theory: $$\frac{da}{dt}=6*2x\frac{dx}{dt}=12x\frac{dx}{dt}$$
>So: $$\frac{da}{dt}=12(2)(6)=144cm^2/\sec$$

>[!faq]- A spherical balloon is inflated with gas at a rate of 800 cubic centimeters per minute: (a) Find the rate of change of the radius when $r=30$ centimeters and $r=85$ centimeters
>Step 1: $$\frac{dv}{dt}=800cm^3/min, r=30cm\to \frac{dr}{dt}$$
>Step 2: $$V=\frac{4}{3}\pi r^3$$
>Step 3: $$\frac{dv}{dt}=\frac{4}{3}\pi 3r^2\to \frac{dr}{dt}=4\pi r^2\frac{dr}{dt}$$
>Step 4: $$800=4\pi(30^2)*\frac{dr}{dt}$$
>$$800=4\pi*900*\frac{dr}{dt}$$
>$$8=36\pi \frac{dr}{dt}$$
>$$\frac{dr}{dt}=\frac{8}{36\pi}=\frac{2}{9\pi}cm/min$$
>Or $$0.07cm/min$$

# References
