# Summary
- The definition of a [[social problem]] has both an objective component and a subjective component. The objective component involves empirical evidence of the negative consequences of a social condition or behavior, while the subjective component involves the perception that the condition or behavior is indeed a problem that needs to be addressed.
- The [[social constructionist view]] emphasizes that a condition or behavior does not become a [[social problem]] unless there is a perception that it should be considered a [[social problem]].
- The natural history of a [[social problem]] consists of four stages: emergence and claims making, legitimacy, renewed claims making, and alternative strategies.
# Learning Objectives
1. Define __[[social problem]]__.
2. Explain the objective and subjective components of the definition of a [[social problem]].
3. Understand the [[social constructionist view]] of social problems.
4. List the stages of the natural history of social problems.
# Related
Next - [[1.2 Sociological perspectives on social problems]]
# Content

## What is a [[social problem]]?

A [[social problem]] is any condition or behavior that has _negative consequences_ for _large numbers of people_ and that is generally recognized as a condition or behavior that needs to be addressed. This definition has both an _objective_ component and a _subjective_ component, meaning facts and opinions.

## The objective component

For any condition or behavior to be considered a [[social problem]], it must have negative consequences for large numbers of people, as each chapter of this book discusses. How do we know if [[social problem]] has negative consequences? 

Reasonable people can and do disagree on whether such consequences exist and, if so, on their extent and seriousness, but ordinarily a body of data accumulates—from work by academic researchers, government agencies, and other sources—that strongly points to extensive and serious consequences. The reasons for these consequences are often hotly debated, and sometimes, as we shall see in certain chapters in this book, sometimes the very existence of these consequences is disputed. 

A current example is _climate change_: Although the overwhelming majority of climate scientists say that climate change (changes in the earth's climate due to the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere) is real and serious, fewer than two-thirds of Americans (64 percent) in a 2011 poll said they "think that global warming is happening" (Leiserowitz, et. al., 2011).

## The subjective component

There must be a perception that a condition or behavior needs to be addressed for it to be considered a [[social problem]]. This component lies at the heart of thesocial constructionist view of social problems (Rubington & Weinberg, 2010). In this view, many types of negative conditions and behaviors exist. Many of these are considered sufficiently negative to acquire the status of a [[social problem]]; some do not receive this consideration and thus do not become a [[social problem]]; and some become considered a [[social problem]] only if citizens, policymakers, or other parties call attention to the condition or behavior.

## Social Constructionist

Social constructionism's emphasis on perception has a provocative implication: Just as a condition or behavior may not be considered a [[social problem]] even if there is strong basis for this perception, so may a condition or behavior be considered a [[social problem]] even if there is little or no basis for this perception. The "issue" of women in college provides a historical example of this latter possibility. In the late 1800s, leading physicians and medical researchers in the United States wrote journal articles, textbooks, and newspaper columns in which they warned women not to go to college. The reason? They feared that the stress of college would disrupt women's menstrual cycles, and they also feared that women would not do well in exams during "that time of the month" (Ehrenreich & English, 2005)!Ehrenreich, B., & English, D. (2005). _For her own good: Two centuries of the experts' advice to women_ (2nd ed.). New York, NY: Anchor Books. We now know better, of course, but the sexist beliefs of these writers turned the idea of women going to college into a [[social problem]] and helped to reinforce restrictions by colleges and universities on the admission of women.

In a related dynamic, various parties can distort certain aspects of a [[social problem]] that does exist: politicians can give speeches, the news media can use scary headlines and heavy coverage to capture readers' or viewers' interest, businesses can use advertising and influence news coverage. News media coverage of violent [[crime]] provides many examples of this dynamic (Robinson, 2011; Surette, 2011).Robinson, M. B. (2011). _Media coverage of [[crime]] and criminal justice_. Durham, NC: Carolina Academic Press; Surette, R. (2011). _Media, [[crime]], and criminal justice: Images, realities, and policies_ (4th ed.). Belmont, CA: Wadsworth. The news media overdramatize violent [[crime]], which is far less common than property [[crime]] like burglary and larceny, by featuring so many stories about it, and this coverage contributes to public fear of [[crime]]. Media stories about violent [[crime]] also tend to be more common when the accused offender is black and the victim is white and when the offender is a juvenile. This type of coverage is thought to heighten the public’s prejudice toward African Americans and to contribute to negative views about teenagers.

## Stages

### Stage 1: Emergence and Claims Making

A [[social problem]] emerges when a social entity (such as a social change group, the news media, or influential politicians) begins to call attention to a condition or behavior that it perceives to be undesirable and in need of remedy.

As part of this process, it tries to influence public perceptions of the problem, the reasons for it, and possible solutions to it. Because the social entity is making claims about all these matters, this aspect of __Stage 1__ is termed the [[claims-making process]]. Not all efforts to turn a condition or behavior into a [[social problem]] succeed, and if they do not succeed, a [[social problem]] does not emerge. Because of the resources they have or do not have, some social entities are more likely than others to succeed at this stage. A few ordinary individuals have little influence in the public sphere, but masses of individuals who engage in protest or other political activity have greater ability to help a [[social problem]] emerge. Because politicians have the ear of the news media and other types of influence, their views about social problems are often very influential. Most studies of this stage of a [[social problem]] focus on the efforts of social change groups and the larger social movement to which they may belong, as most social problems begin with bottom-up efforts from such groups.

### Stage 2: Legitimacy

Once a social group succeeds in turning a condition or behavior into a [[social problem]], it usually tries to persuade the government (local, state, and/or federal) to take some action—spending and policymaking—to address the problem. As part of this effort, it tries to convince the government that its claims about the problem are legitimate—that they make sense and are supported by _empirical_ ([[research]]-based) evidence. To the extent that the group succeeds in convincing the government of the legitimacy of its claims, government action is that much more likely to occur.

### Stage 3: Renewed Claims Making

Even if government action does occur, social change groups often conclude that the action is too limited in goals or scope to be able to successfully address the [[social problem]]. If they reach this conclusion, they often decide to press their demands anew. They do so by reasserting their claims and by criticizing the official response they have received from the government or other established interests, such as big businesses. This stage may involve a fair amount of tension between the social change groups and these targets of their claims.

### Stage 4: Development of Alternative Strategies

Despite the renewed claims making, social change groups often conclude that the government and established interests are not responding adequately to their claims. Although the groups may continue to press their claims, they nonetheless realize that these claims may fail to win an adequate response from established interests. This realization leads them to develop their own strategies for addressing the [[social problem]].

# References

Social Problems: Continuity and change CH 1.1