# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[6.1 Inverse Circular Functions]]
Next - [[6.3 Trigonometric Equations 2]]
# Content

>[!note] Solving
>The simplest way to solve (when possible) is like you would solve in _algebra_, where you would treat the __trigonometric function__ like a _variable_, then the last step is to solve for __x__ or $\theta$ as the case may be.
>
>We will proceed with the convention of;
> >If the variable is __x__, use radians.
> >If the variable is __y__, use degrees.

>[!faq]- Solve: $2\sin x+2=3$
>$2\sin x=1$ Subtract 2 from both sides
>$\frac{2\sin x}{2}=\frac{1}{2}$ Divide 2 from both sides
>$\sin x=\frac{1}{2}$
>
>Now just find the radians, since it's x, of __BOTH__ angles where $x=\frac{1}{2}$
>
>The answer being: $x=\frac{\pi}{6},\frac{5\pi}{6}$

>[!faq]- Solve: $2\sec x+1=\sec x+3$
>Simplifying the equation you get $\sec x=2$
>Secant is annoying to deal with, so I advise getting the reciprocal
>$\cos x=\frac{1}{2}$
>
>Solves down to: $x=\frac{\pi}{3},\frac{5\pi}{3}$

>[!faq]- Solve: $\sec^{2}x+1=-2$
>Move the 1 over
>$\sec^{2}x=-3$
>Find the root
>$\sqrt{ \sec^{2} }=\sqrt{ -3 }$
>
>Uh oh, there's no such thing as a negative square root(Imaginary Number).
>
>So the answer is: __No solution__

>[!faq]- Solve: $2\cos^{2}x=\cos x-1=0$
>Like with algebra, you can factor this before doing anything, treating the functions like and __x__ or __y__.
>
>$(2\cos x+1)(\cos x-1)$ Factored
>Now each parenthesis is equal to 0
>
>So solve each equation: $2\cos x+1=0$ and $\cos x-1=0$
>
>Resulting in: $\cos x=-\frac{1}{2}$ and $\cos x=1$
>
>Which will give you more than 2 positions where $\cos x$ is equal to either $\frac{1}{2}$ or $1$: $x=\frac{2\pi}{3},\frac{4\pi}{3},0$

>[!note] More than 1 trigonometric function
>If you have more than one trigonometric function, you will need to convert to one trigonometric function by using identities before solving.

>[!faq]- Solve the following on $[0,360\degree]$: $\cos^{2}\theta=\sin^{2}\theta+1$
>You can solve for either trigonometric function using the [[Pythagorean Identities#^ff3cac]], just as long as you get down to 1 trigonometric function.
>
>Substitute in SINE for example and it simplifies down to: $\cos^{2}\theta=1$
>
>When you get to this stage and you're ready to find the square root, remember that you will have 2 answers on root 1: $\cos \theta=\pm \sqrt{ 1 }$
>
>So you will have 2 equals: $\cos \theta=1$ or $\cos \theta=-1$
>
>Which equals: $\theta=0,180\degree$

>[!note] Variables
>When you are working with more than one trigonometric function, __NEVER__ divide out a variable.

>[!faq]- Solve the following: $\sin^{2}\theta \cos \theta=\cos \theta$
>$(1-\cos^{2}\theta)\cos \theta=\cos \theta$
>$\cos \theta-\cos^{3}\theta =\cos \theta$
>$-\cos^{3}=0$
>
>Cosine is 0 at: $90\degree,270\degree$

>[!faq]- Solve the following: $\tan \theta+1=\sqrt{ 3 }+\sqrt{ 3 }\cot \theta$
>$\tan \theta+1=\sqrt{ 3 }+\sqrt{ 3 }\frac{1}{\tan \theta}$
>$\tan^{2} \theta+\tan \theta=\sqrt{ 3 }\tan \theta+\sqrt{ 3 }$ You can multiply all of the prior by $\tan \theta$
>
>$\tan^{2}\theta+\tan \theta-\sqrt{ 3 }\tan \theta-\sqrt{ 3 }=0$
>Factor by grouping
>
>$(\tan^{2}\theta+\tan \theta)+(-\sqrt{ 3 }\tan \theta-\sqrt{ 3 })=0$
>Find what is common amongst them and pull them out
>
>$\tan \theta(\tan \theta+1)-\sqrt{ 3 }(\tan \theta+1)=0$
>Find what is common amongst them again and pull them out
>
>$(\tan \theta+1)(\tan \theta-\sqrt{ 3 })=0$
>Now you have 2 problems that are equal to 0 and you can find the values.
>
>$\tan \theta=-1$ and $\tan \theta=\sqrt{ 3 }$
>
>And that is true of points: $135,315,60,240$
>
>Simple, _right?_

>[!note] When they don't factor
>Sometimes the equation given doesn't factor out, which result in you needing to use the [[the-quadratic-formula-and-the-values-of-discriminant.webp]]

>[!faq]- Solve the following: $4\cos^{2}\theta+4\cos \theta=1$
>$4\cos^{2}\theta+4\cos \theta-1=0$
>Then use the [[the-quadratic-formula-and-the-values-of-discriminant.webp]] since this doesn't factor. Round answers to one decimal place.
>
>$$\cos \theta=\frac{-4\pm \sqrt{ 4^{2}-4(4)(-1) }}{2(4)}$$
>Put this in your calculator, in degrees, for approximate.
>
>$\cos \theta=0.2071\dots$
>Then use $\theta=\cos^{-1}(0.2071\dots)$
>
>You will need to do this for it being negative and for it being positive, so you should have more than 2 answers.
>
> However, when you try to do this for the negative you will get an answer outside of the range of $\cos=-1.207\dots$ when the range is $[-1,1]$
>
>So your answers are: $\theta=78.0,282.0,$

>[!note] Determine the __solution set__
>You will encounter problems that ask for the solution set, which means that you need to find __all__ solutions. So you will add $+360n$ to all of these solutions.
>
>All angles need to be on $[0,360\degree)$

# References