# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[6.2 Trigonometric Equations 1]]
Next - [[6.4 Equations Involving Inverse Trigonometric Functions]]
# Content

>[!note] When solving...
>Solve over $[0,2\pi)$ or $[0,360)$ as appropriate.
>Basically it means:
> >If __x__, use radians.
> >If $\theta$, use degrees.

>[!faq]- For $\cos 2x=-\frac{1}{2}$
>You can solve in two different ways.
>1)
> >Convert $\cos 2x$ to a trig function with a single angle
> >$\cos 2x=-\frac{1}{2}$
> >$2\cos^{2}x-1=-\frac{1}{2}$
> >$\cos^{2}x=\frac{1}{4}$
> >$\cos x=\pm \sqrt{ \frac{1}{4} }$
> >$\cos x=+\frac{1}{2}$
> >And all the possible x's are: $\frac{\pi}{3},\frac{2\pi}{3},\frac{4\pi}{3},\frac{5\pi}{3}$
>2)
> >For 2x keeping in mind that since the angle is 2x, it expands the domain from $0\leq x<2\pi$ into $0\leq 2x<4\pi$
> >Which means we want two rotations of [[UnitCircle.png]] for 2x.
> >$\cos 2x=-\frac{1}{2}$ means $2x=\frac{2\pi}{3},\frac{4\pi}{3}$
> >But because of the 2nd time around the unit circle is $4\pi$, find a coterminal for each by adding $2\pi$.
> >Then divide every answer by 2 to get the single __x__, (Or think multiplying by $\frac{1}{2}$)
> >$2x=\left( \frac{1}{2} \right)\frac{2\pi}{3},\left( \frac{1}{2} \right)\frac{4\pi}{3},\dots$
> >And all possible x's are: $\frac{\pi}{3},\frac{2\pi}{3},\frac{4\pi}{3},\frac{5\pi}{3}$

>[!faq]- $-2\cos 2\theta=\sqrt{ 3 }$
>First, know that $0\leq \theta<360$
>So that means your $2\theta$ is gonna actually be $0\leq 2\theta<720$ or $4\pi$
>
>$2\theta=150\degree, 210\degree$
>There's two rotations, so 1 coterminal of each answer.
>
>$2\theta=150\degree+360\degree$ and $2\theta=210\degree+360\degree$
>
>You get: $2\theta=150\degree,210\degree,510\degree,570\degree$
>Now just divide out that 2
>
>$\theta=75\degree,105\degree,255\degree,285\degree$

>[!faq]- $2\sqrt{ 3 }\cos \frac{\theta}{2}=-3$
>First, know that this is $0\degree\leq \theta<360\degree$ which then becomes $0\degree\leq \frac{\theta}{2}<180\degree$
>$\cos \frac{\theta}{2}=-\frac{3\sqrt{ 3 }}{2*3}$
>$\cos \frac{\theta}{2}=-\frac{\sqrt{ 3 }}{2}$
>
>And so $\frac{\theta}{2}=150\degree,210\degree$
>But $210\degree$ is outside the domain of $0\degree\leq \frac{\theta}{2}<180\degree$, so that one discarded.
>And then just times 2 instead of dividing 2 like the previous and: $\theta=300\degree$

>[!note] Cannot solve...
>You __cannot__ solve if the angle sizes are different. A conversion will have to be done before it can be solved. Use identities to make this happen as necessary.

>[!faq]- $\cos 2x-\cos x=0$
>$2\cos^{2}x-1-\cos x=0$ Choose an identity to work with
>$2\cos^{2}x-\cos x-1$ Put it in quadratic form
>$(2\cos x+1)(\cos x-1)=0$ Now solve for both 
>$\cos x=-\frac{1}{2}$ and $\cos x=1$
>
>Which equates out to: $x=\frac{2\pi}{3},\frac{4\pi}{3},0$

>[!faq]- $\sec \frac{x}{2}=\cos \frac{x}{2}$
>First, get this into a more useable form with identities.
>$\frac{1}{\cos \frac{x}{2}}=\cos \frac{x}{2}$
>$1=\cos^{2}\frac{x}{2}$
>$\pm\sqrt{ 1 }=\sqrt{ \cos^{2}\frac{x}{2} }$
>$\pm1=\cos \frac{x}{2}$
>
>Which leaves you with $\cos \frac{x}{2}=1$ or $\cos \frac{x}{2}=-1$
>$\frac{x}{2}=0,\pi$
>
>Know your domain is $0\leq x<2\pi$ made into $0\leq \frac{x}{2}<\pi$
>$\pi$ is __EQUAL__ your end which is not permitted, it must be lower not equal to.
>
>So your answer is: $0$

# References