# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[6.3 Trigonometric Equations 2]]
Next  - [[7.1 Oblique Triangles and the Law of Sines]]
# Content

>[!note]
>Solve each equation for __x__.

>[!faq]- $4y=\sin x$
>First, you have to isolate the trigonometric function... which is already done in this case.
>Second, you take the inverse trigonometric function of both sides.
>$\sin^{-1}4y=\sin^{-1}(\sin x)$
>$\sin^{-1}4y=x$
>
>This can also be written as $\arcsin4y=x$, so don't let that throw you off.

>[!faq]- $y=2\csc \frac{x}{2}-\sqrt{ 3 }$
>$y+\sqrt{ 3 }=2\csc \frac{x}{2}$
>$\frac{y+\sqrt{ 3 }}{2}=\csc \frac{x}{2}$
>$\csc^{-1}\frac{y+\sqrt{ 3 }}{2}=\frac{x}{2}$
>$2\csc^{-1}\left( \frac{y+\sqrt{ 3 }}{2} \right)=x$
>
>_Simple, right?_

>[!faq]- Solve for exact solutions: $6\arccos x=5\pi$
>First, isolate.
>$\arccos x=\frac{5\pi}{6}$
>
>And all this is asking is, what is the function value of $\cos$ at $\frac{5\pi}{6}$?
>
>So just find $\frac{5\pi}{6}$ on the [[UnitCircle.png]] and find the $\cos$ of that angle.
>
>Which is: $x=-\frac{\sqrt{ 3 }}{2}$

>[!note] Be careful about the domain of the functions...
>If a function was defined as:
>$$\tan^{-1}y=-\frac{3\pi}{4}$$
>Which would be in quadrant 3 and none of the functions are defined in quadrant 3.

>[!faq]- $\tan^{-1}x=\cos^{-1}\frac{5}{13}$
>The best way to solve these is with triangles and a little bit of substitution.
>
>Let $u=\cos^{-1}\frac{5}{13}$ which means that $\tan^{-1}x=u$ and so $\cos u=\frac{5}{13}$
>
>Draw a triangle in the first quadrant with 13 as the hypotenuse, 5 as the x, u as the angle, and y as the adjacent.
>
>Simply use Pythagorean theorem to get $y=12$
>
>Now just plug it in:
>$\tan u=x$
>$\tan u=\frac{12}{5}=x$

>[!faq]- $\sin^{-1}x+\tan^{-1}x=0$
>First thing you should do is set it up like this $\sin^{-1}x=-\tan^{-1}x$
>
>Now $x=\sin(-\tan^{-1}x)$
>$x=-\sin(\tan^{-1}x)$
>
>Let $u=\tan^{-1}x$ which just means that $\tan u=x$ and so the main formula looks like $x=-\sin(u)$
>
>Now set up your triangle with the information like last time.
>
>Now you have $x=-\frac{x}{\sqrt{ 1+x^{2} }}$
>
>Then solve:
>$x\sqrt{ 1+x^2 }=-x$ Multiply both sides by the denominator
>$x\sqrt{ 1+x^2 }+x=0$ Add x to both sides
>$x(\sqrt{ 1+x^2 }+1)=0$ Factor out x
>
>And you're left with $x=0$ or $\sqrt{ 1+x^2 }+1=0$ of which the latter __cannot__ happen because a positive plus a positive can't equal 0.
>
>So: $x=0$
>
>_Simple, right?_

# References