Inverse trig functions:
- If no horizontal, or vertical, intersects the graph of the function more than once, the function is one-to-one and will have an inverse.
- If (a, b) is on the graph of f(x), then (b, a) is on the graph of f^-1. (Read f inverse)
- The graph of the inverse of f (f^-1) is a reflection of the graph of f about the line y=x

Graph: $y = sin(x)$

*Picture in phone*

Note: The picture, or graph, is not a "One-to-One" function. In order to work with an inverse of SINE, we will have to restrict the domain of SINE to a "One-to-One" piece. We will restrict the domain of y = sin(x) to (-pi/2, pi/2) for a "One-to-One" interval.

*Picture in phone*

Note: This is only defined on Quadrants 1 & 4.

On the domain (-pi/2, pi/2) for y = sin(x) has an inverse. It is called the inverse SINE function and is denoted both as $y = sin^-1(x)$ and $y = ArcSin(x)$.

Note: $y = sin^-1(x)$ is not the reciprocal of SINE, it is instead the inverse.

Finding exact values: $y = sin^-1(x)$

Given: $0 = sin^-1(sqrt(2)/2)$

Note: Think "backwards" as you have the function value of SINE and you want to know at what angle is that function value. (Again, only in Quadrant 1 & 4)

*Picture in phone*

$Θ = π/4$

For $Θ = sin^-1(x)$:
- Can be rewritten by taking the SINE of both sides.

$sinΘ = sin(sin^-1(x))$
$sinΘ = x$

$Θ = sin^-1(-√(3)/2)$  --  At what angle(Θ) is sin(sin) negative root 3 over 2 (-√(3)/2) is what this formula layout is asking.

For: $y = cos(x)$

*Picture in phone*

The restricted domain for y = cos(x) to have a [[One-to-One Ratio]] piece is chosen as (0, π). Which is Quadrant 1 & 4

Note: Quadrant 3 never comes into play.

*Picture in phone*

Find Θ for: $Θ = cos^-1(√(3)/2)$

Reminder: [[Reciprocals]]
- sin(Θ) = y
- cos(Θ) = x
- tan(Θ) = y/x
- csc(x) = 1/y
- sec(x) = 1/x
- cot(x) = x/y

So $cos^-1(√(3)/2)$, what angle does this occur?
A: Θ = π/6

$Θ = sin^-1(x)$: Theta defined on (-π/2, π/2)
$Θ = cos^-1(x)$: Theta defined on (0, π)
$Θ = tan^-1(x)$: Theta defined on (-π/2, π/2)

*Picture in phone*

We will use $y = tan(x)$ with domain (-π/2, π/2) for our [[One-to-One Ratio]] piece for the inverse.
So for $Θ = tan^-1(x)$, Theta is only in Quadrant 1 & 4

Find Theta for: $Θ = tan^-1(√(3))$

$√3 = y/x$ which is $√3/2 / 1/2 = √3/1 = √3$

So $Θ = π/3$

Quadrants that Inverses occur in:
- Quadrant 1: COSINE, SINE, SECANT, COSECANT, COTANGENT, TANGENT
- Quadrant 2: COSINE, SECANT, COTANGENT
- Quadrant 3: Nothing
- Quadrant 4: SINE, COSECANT, TANGENT
*Picture in phone of memorization graph*

Find exact value if possible: $cos(cos^-1(0.6)) = 0.6$

Note: What is inside must be defined in order to have a solution. Remember that y = cos(x) is only defined from -1 to 1. AKA the 0.6

Ex) $cos(cos^-1(2.3))$
2.3 is a garbage value and so it is not defined, therefor there is NO SOLUTION

Ex) $sin^-1(sin(4π/3))$
If $4π/3$ had been in the allowed quadrants for SINE, you could let $sin^-1$ cancel out sin and the answer would be the given angle. However, it is not, so you must go through the whole problem.

So: $sin^-1(sin(4π/3)) = sin^-1(-sqrt(3)/2) = -π/3$

Note: They only "Cancel out" if the value( $sin^-1(sin(π/3))$ falls into Quadrant 1 which is allowed for SINE). So that formula cancels out and you're left with just π/3!

Ex) $cos(tan^-1(5/12))$

For this one, let $tan^-1(5/12) = Θ$. Which means that y/x = 5/12 and since 5/12 is positive and inverse tan is only defined in Quadrant 1 & 4, we must be in Quadrant 1.
Recommended: Put this info on a coordinate system.

*Picture in phone*
[[Unit Circle Triangle Drawing]]

In this formula, 5 & 12 are the sides of the triangle.
So for $cos(tan^-1(5/12)) = cosΘ = x/r = 12/13$

