An example of a trig equation looks like this: $cosx = \frac{\sqrt2}2$

This is asking at what angle is $cosx$ equal to root two over two.

This would mean that $x = \frac{π}4$ & $x = \frac{7π}4$ on one rotation of the [[UnitCircle.png]]
It is also true for all [[Coterminal]] angles of $\fracπ4$ & $\frac{7π}4$ 

The difference to $cosx = \frac{\sqrt{2}}2$ and $Θ = cos^{-1}(\frac{\sqrt2}2)$ is that x from $cosx = \frac{\sqrt2}2$ is not limited to Quadrant 1 & Quadrant 2 that $Θ = cos^{-1}(\frac{\sqrt2}2)$ is.

So the complete solutions for $cosx = \frac{\sqrt2}2$ are $x = π/4+2πn$ , $\frac{7π}4+2πn$

Ex) Find all solutions of:
$5sinx = 3sinx+√3$
			-3sinx
	$2sinx = √3$
		/2
$sinx = √3/2$

Then find both occurrences on the [[UnitCircle.png]]

$sinx(√3/2)$: $x = π/3+2πn$ & $x = 2π/3+2πn$

'n' is an integer in these formulas, just mentally replace it.

When you have a multiplier inside the trig function, you need to do a little bit of adjusting.

Ex) Solve on the interval (0, 2π): <-- This means that 0 <= x <= 2π, but we have 2x in the following formula so: 0 <= 2x <= 4π. This means that we have 2 rotations of the [[UnitCircle.png]] resulting in 4 answers rather than 2.

$cos2x = √2/2$

2x = $π/4$ , $7π/4$ , $9π/4$ , $15π/4$

Get x on it's own by dividing the right by 2, or multiplying by 1/2

x = $π/8$ , $7π/8$ , $9π/8$ , $15π/8$

Ex) Solve on the interval (0, 2π) <-- This means $0 <= x <= 2π$, but we have x/2 so instead it's $0 <= x/2 <= π$

$tan(x/2) = √3/3$

$tan(π/6) = 1/2 / √3/2 = 1/√3 = 3/3$

So: $x/2 = π/6$

Get x on it's own by multiplying the denominator 2

$x = π/3$

Ex) $tan 3x = √3$

$0 <= x < 2π$

$0 <= 3x < 6π$

$tan(π/3) = √3/2 / 1/2 = √3/1 = √3$

3x = $π/3$ , $4π/3$ , $7π/3$ , $10π/3$ , $13π/3$ , $16π/3$

Get x on it's own by multiplying by 1/3

x = $π/9$ , $4π/9$ , $7π/9$ , $10π/9$ , $13π/9$ , $16π/9$

Ex) Solve: $2sin^2x - 3sinx + 1 = 0$

Treat this the same way as [[General Form]]

$2y^2 - 3y + 1 = 0$

Which would factor out to $(2y-1)(y-1) = 0$
$2y - 1 = 0$ --> $y = 1/2$
$y - 1 = 0$ --> $y = 1$

So for the original formula:
$2sinx = 1$
$sinx = 1/2$

Use the [[UnitCircle.png]]

x = $π/6$ , $5π/6$ , $π/2$

$2cos^2x+3cosx+1=0$

$(2cosx + 1)(cosx + 1) = 0$

$cosx = -1/2$
$cosx = -1$

Find these points on the [[UnitCircle.png]]

x = $\frac{2π}3$ , $π$ , $\frac{4π}3$

Ex) $4cos^2x-1=0$
+1
$4cos^2x=1$
/4
$cos^2x=1/4$
√
$cosx= +- √1/4$

cosx = 1/2
cosx = -1/2

cosx = π/3 , 5π/3 , 2π/3 , 4π/3

Ex) $sinx * tanx - sinx = 0$

Take out that sinx

$sinx(tanx-1)=0$

So now:
$sinx=0$ or $tanx=1$

x = $0$ , $π$ , $π/4$ , $5π/4$

**Some of these equations may necessitate Identities**

If you have more than one trig function and you cannot separate them by factoring out a [[Greatest Common Factor]], you will need to use an identity to rearrange to only one trig function.

Ex) $2sinx^2 - 3cosx = 0$

You can use the [[Pythagorean Identities#^ff3cac]] to rearrange to $sin^2x = 1 - cos^2x$

$2(1 - cos^2x) - 3cosx = 0$

$2 - 2cos^2x - cosx = 0$

Having a negative in front makes it difficult, so factor it out

$-1(2 - 2cos^2x - cosx = 0)$
$2cos^2x - cosx = 0$

Now factor it

$(2cosx -1)(cosx+2) = 0$

So:
$cosx = 1/2$
$cosx = -2$

NOTE: COSINE lies between (-1, 1) on the [[UnitCircle.png]]

So x = π/3 , 5π/3
Not using $cosx = -2$ because that's not possible as -2 doesn't lie between -1 and 1. No Solution

Ex) $7cosx = 4-2sin^2x$

$7cosx = 4 - 2(1-cos^2x)$

$7cosx = 4 - 2 + 2cos^2x$

$0 = 2cos^2x -7cosx + 2$

Since you cannot solve this as is, you will be forced to use the Quadratic Equation

$$cosx = -(-7) +- \frac{\sqrt{(-7)-4(2)(2)}} {2(2)}$$

Which solves down to 
$cosx = 7+√33 / 4$
$cosx = 7-√33 / 4$

Of which the $cosx = 7+√33 / 4$ falls out of range of COSINE so no solution

Put the second term in the calculator in Radians and it computes to

x = 1.25

Use the [[UnitCircle.png]] for radians

For the second angle, if it goes into the negatives, write it as $2π-1.25$ into the calculator

and now it's

x = 1.25 Radians , 5.03 Radians
*Picture on phone for better visual*

NOTE: You cannot solve trig equations if there are two different size angles
Ex) $sin2x = cosx$

Use an identity to change the size

$2sinxcosx = cosx$

$2sinxcosx - cosx = 0$

$cosx(2sinx - 1) = 0$

So
$cosx = 0$
$2sinx = 1/2$

Use the [[UnitCircle.png]]

x = π/2 , 3π/2 , π/6 , 5π/6

Ex) $sinx cosx = -1/2$

Use an identity. By multiplying both sides by 2 I can put it in a form that is half an identity that we know.

$2sinx cosx = -1$

$sin2x = -1$

Use [[UnitCircle.png]]

$2x = 3π/2$ , $7π/2$

$x = 3π/4$ , $7π/4$

NOTE: Sometimes the only way to solve is to square both sides. However, when you do this, if you square both sides you must check your answers in the original equation. Use calculator. There are frequently extraneous solutions created.

Ex) $cosx - sinx = -1$

$(cosx - sinx)^2 = (-1)^2$

$cos^2x - cosxsinx - cosxsinx + sin^2x = 1$

Remember that [[Pythagorean Identities#^ff3cac]]

$-2cosxsinx + 1 = 1$

$-2cosxsinx = 0$

$cosxsinx = 0$

So:
$cosx = 0$
$sinx = 0$

Find on the [[UnitCircle.png]] but remember to check them in the calculator.

x = π/2 , 3π/2 , 0 , π
These should all equal -1 like in the original equation

x = π/2 , π are left as they equal -1