# Summary
line = AB with double arrowed line above
line segment = AB with solid line above
ray = AB with one arrow line above

# Related

Next - [[1.3 Trigonometric Functions]]
# Content

Two points A and B determine a line called [[line]] AB, which is denoted as AB with a line with two arrows above it.

@Add 

The portion of the line between points A and B including the points A and B is [[line segment]] AB, which is denoted as AB with a solid line above it.

@Add Pic here

The portion of the line that starts at A and goes through B and continues is called [[ray]]
AB, which is denoted as AB with a line and one arrow above it.

@Add Pic here

*Always list the point first that is the endpoint (the one without the arrow)*
*NOTE: Direction matters with [ray], it does not matter with [line] or [line segment]*

In trigonometry, and angle is two rays joined by a common endpoint. The two rays are called the [[sides]] of the angle. The common endpoint is called the [[vertex]].

@Add Pic here

An angle has measure generated by rotating one ray to the other position.

@Add Pic here

The starting position is the [[initial side]]. The ending position is the [[terminal side]].

@Add Pic here

Counterclockwise gives a positive angle measure. Clockwise gives a negative angle measure.

Degree measure:
	360degrees to rotate a ray completely around the axis.

$90{\degree}$ = 1/4 of a revolution

$180{\degree}$ is 1/2 of a revolution

$1{\degree}$ is 1/360 of a revolution

Angles between 0 and 90 degrees are [[acute angle]], 90 degree angles are [[right angle]], angles between 90 and 180 degrees are [[obtuse angle]], and 180 degrees is a [[straight angle]].

If the sum of __two positive__ angles is 90 degrees, they are called [[complimentary angle]].

Ex.) $40{\degree}$ and $50{\degree}$ are complements of one another.
*If you have trouble remembering this term, just think that they are complementing one another at a party!*

If the sum of two positive angles is $180{\degree}$, they are called [[supplementary angle]].

Ex.) $50{\degree}$ and $130{\degree}$ are supplements of one another.

>[!faq]- What is a compliment of $23{\degree}$?
>$67{\degree}$

>[!faq]- What is a supplement of $41{\degree}$?
>$139{\degree}$

Find the measure of each angle: 3r + 2r = $180{\degree}$

3r + 2r = $90{\degree}$
5r = $90{\degree}$
r = $18{\degree}$

3($18{\degree}$) = $54{\degree}$
2($18{\degree}$) = $36{\degree}$

*Ta da! Not that hard is it?*

If you ever see something that is written like $m(angle A)$ then they mean the *measure* of Angle A. Even though you might see $m(angleA) = 25{\degree}$ you usually will see it simply as $A = 25{\degree}$.

Parts of degrees are traditionally measured in minutes and seconds. Where there are 60 minutes in 1 degree.

You might see this written as $60' = 1{\degree}$.

And of course 60 seconds is 1 minute

You might see this written as $60'' = 1{\degree}$

Ex.) $28{\degree} 35'$ + $63{\degree} 52'$

= $91{\degree} 87'$

Convert the minutes to $1{\degree}$ and 27 minutes if the minutes go over an hour. Then add.

= $92{\degree} 27'$

**BE DAMN CAREFUL OF THAT APOSTROPHE, THEY COULD TRIP YOU UP IF YOU MISTAKE THE HOUR SYMBOL AND MINUTE SYMBOL**

>[!faq]- What is $15{\degree} 49' + 48{\degree} 37'$?
>$64{\degree} 26'$

>[!faq]- What is $12{\degree} 38' 51''$?
>$86{\degree} 20' 35''$

Subtraction will be a careful procedure as well, you will need to work from seconds to degrees.

>[!faq]- What is $53{\degree} 21' - 17{\degree}48'$?
> Convert one of the degrees into 60 seconds
>$52{\degree}81' - 17{\degree}48'$
>
> Answer: $35{\degree}33'$

Convert: $105{\degree}20'32''$ to decimal degrees using unit conversion

Remember that $1{\degree} = 60'$ right?
And that $1' = 60''$ right?

So when you do this to $20'$ you channel this into

$105{\degree} + 20 * 1/60 + 32 * 1/60 * 1/60 = 105.342{\degree}$
or written as
$105{\degree} + 20 / 60 + 32 / 60 / 60$


*Not that hard right?*

To go from decimal degrees to degrees, minutes, seconds.

$51.6841{\degree}$

First, take the decimal portion and convert to minutes using $1{\degree} = 60'$

Written as $51{\degree} + .6841{\degree} * 60'/1{\degree}$ 

$= 51{\degree} 41.046'$

Then, take the decimal portion again and convert to seconds using $1' = 60''$

$51{\degree} 41' + .046' * 60''/1'$

Which then finally equals

$= 51{\degree} 41' 2.76''$

An angle is in __standard position__ if:
1. It's initial side is on the positive X-axis
2. It's vertex is the origin. Easy, it goes right where the X and Y cross.
3. It's measured counter-clockwise from the X-axis if the angle is positive, and measured clockwise if the angle is negative.

Angles in standard position, whose terminal sides lie on an X or Y axis, such as those with measures $90{\degree}, 180{\degree}, 270{\degree}, 360{\degree}$ are [[quadrantal angles]]. This term is infrequently used.

Angles whose measures differ by a multiple of $360{\degree}$ degrees are called [[coterminal angles]]. 

>[!faq]- Find the angles of least positive measure coterminal to: $1106{\degree}$
>$1106 - 360 = 746$
>$746 - 360 = 386$
>$386 - 360 = 26$
>Answer = $26{\degree}$

>[!faq]- Find the most positive measure coterminal to: $-603{\degree}$
>$-603 + 360 = -243$
>$-243 + 306 = 117$
>Answer = $117{\degree}$

Sometimes you need to know ALL angles coterminal to a given angle.
The formula for this is $\theta + n360{\degree}$.

$\theta$ means Theta, and that means *angle variable*

You may be asked, what is the formula for ALL angles coterminal to $68{\degree}$?

All you do is replace Theta with $68{\degree}$ in the previous formula.

$$68{\degree} + n360$$

>[!faq]- A wheel makes 270 revolutions per minute. Through how many degrees will a point on the edge of the wheel move in 5 seconds?
> $270 \frac{rav}{min} * \frac{360deg}{1rev} * \frac{1min}{60sec}$
> $= 1620\frac{deg}{sec}$
> So in 5 seconds, it moves $1620 * 5 = 8100{\degree}$

# References

Lesson 2024-02-13

Lesson 2024-02-15