# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[1.1 Angles]]
Next - [[1.4 Using the Definitions of the Trigonometric Functions]]
# Content

Start with angle $\theta$ in standard position.

Then we will choose point *P* on the terminal side.
$P = (x,y)$

Then we can find the hypotenuse, *r*, of the triangle we created by:
$$r^2 = x^2 + y^2$$
$$r = \sqrt{ x^2 + y^2 }$$
The six trigonometric functions are defined as:
- $\sin\theta = \frac{y}{r}$
- $\cos\theta = \frac{x}{r}$
- $\tan\theta = \frac{y}{x}$
- $\csc\theta = \frac{r}{y}$ y can never be 0
- $\sec\theta = \frac{r}{x}$ x can never be 0
- $\cot\theta = \frac{x}{y}$ y can never be 0

**BE CAREFUL ON QUESTIONS, THEY MIGHT SWAP THE ORDER AROUND TO FUCK WITH YOU**

Ex.) For the point (2, 2)
x = 2
y = 2

So $r = \sqrt{ 2^2 + 2^2 } = \sqrt{ 8 } = \sqrt{ 4*2 } = 2\sqrt{ 2 }$

$$\sin \theta = \frac{y}{r} = \frac{2}{2\sqrt{ 2 }} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{ 2 }} * \frac{\sqrt{ 2 }}{\sqrt{ 2 }} = \frac{\sqrt{ 2 }}{2}$$

So the answer is $\frac{\sqrt{ 2 }}{2}$ $$\sin \theta = \frac{3}{3\sqrt{ 2 }} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{ 2 }} = \frac{\sqrt{ 2 }}{2}$$

Ex.) The terminal side of an angle $\theta$ in [[Standard Position]] passes through the point (12, 5). Find the values of the 6 trig functions of angle $\theta$.

1. Draw a line from (0, 0) through point (12, 5).
2. Draw a triangle from that line with the closest x-axis.
3. Use Pythagorean theorem

$r^2 = 5^2 + 12^2$
$r^2 = 169$
$r = 13$

So finding all the formulas:
1. sin = 5/13
2. cos = 12/13
3. tan = 5/12
4. csc = 13/5
5. sec = 13/12
6. cot = 12/5

Find the 6 trig function values of the the angle $\theta$ in standard position if the terminal side of $\theta$ is defined by $3x-2y=0, x\leq 0$.

1. Graph the line represented by the formula by putting a number into the formula and solve for both X and Y.
2. The line goes through the (0, 0) so it could have a triangle in the negative, but  the $x\leq 0$ tells you to draw the triangle in the negative side.
3. Then from there draw your triangle and solve with Pythagorean Theorem.

If you see a question that goes: Since I know x is negative, I choose x is -2 and will find y for a point on there terminal side of my angle.

This will plot the triangle in Quadrant III and you will solve with Pythagorean Theorem from there.

**REMEMBER TO NOT LEAVE RADICALS IN THE DENOMINATOR**

Ex.) Find the 6 trig function values for: $\theta=180\degree$

You can do this either by calculator, or by hand.
By hand, just pick the simplest number possible for this angle, which is (-1, 0).

x = -1
y = 0
r = 1

Then plug them in, simple.

$sin180 = \frac{0}{1} = 0$
cos180 = $\frac{-1}{1} = -1$
tan180 = $\frac{0}{1}=0$
csc180 = $\frac{1}{0}=$ undefined
sec180 = $\frac{1}{-1}=-1$
cot180 = $\frac{-1}{0}=$ undefined

Solve this equation for either 1, 0, -1, undefined:$$\sec[(2n+1)*180\degree]$$

1. Set $n$ to equal 0 and see if $\theta$ changes.
2. Plot the point on graph, this one doesn't change so plot $180\degree$ which is $x=-1,y=0,r=1$.
3. Solve for $\sec=\frac{r}{x}=\frac{1}{-1}=-1$

And so the formula $\sec[(2n+1)*180\degree]$ is answered with $-1$.

# References

Lesson 2024-02-15