# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[4.4 Graphs of the Secant and Cosecant functions]]
Next - [[5.2 Verifying Trigonometric Identities]]
# Content

>[!info] Things to know for this chapter
>[[Reciprocal Identities]]
>[[Quotient Identities]]
>[[Pythagorean Identities]]
>[[Negative Angle Identities]]

>[!faq]- If $\cos \theta=\frac{-2}{3}$ what is $\cos(-\theta)=$?
>Since $\cos \theta=\cos(-\theta)$ then $\cos(-\theta)=-\frac{2}{3}$

>[!faq]- If $\sin \theta=-\frac{2}{3}$ what is $\sin(-\theta)=?$
>Since $\sin(-\theta)=-\sin \theta$ then $\sin(-\theta)=\frac{2}{3}$

>[!faq]- Given that $\cot \theta=-\frac{1}{3}$, find $\sin \theta$ in Q4
>Start with $1+\cot^{2}\theta=\csc^{2}\theta$ and simplify
>$1+\left( -\frac{1}{3} \right)^{2}=\csc^{2}\theta$
>$1+\frac{1}{9}=\csc^{2}\theta$
>$\frac{10}{9}=\csc^{2}\theta$
>$-\frac{\sqrt{ 10 }}{3}=\csc \theta$
>
>Now find $\sin$ which is just the reciprocal of the $\csc$ which you have now.
>$-\frac{3}{\sqrt{ 10 }}=\sin \theta$
>
>Now just rationalize that unreal number in the denominator.
>$\sin \theta=-\frac{3\sqrt{ 10 }}{10}$
>
>_Simple, right?_

>[!faq]- Find the remaining 5 trig functions if $\cos \theta=\frac{1}{5}$ and $\theta$ is in Q1.
>First of all, we're in Q1, so everything is positive.
>
>Recommended to start with [[Pythagorean Identities#^ff3cac]] since we're starting with $\cos \theta$.
>$\sin^{2}\theta+\left( \frac{1}{5} \right)^{2}=1$
>$\sin^{2}\theta+\frac{1}{25}=1$
>$\sin^{2}\theta=\frac{24}{25}$
>$\sin \theta=\sqrt{ \frac{24}{25} }$
>$\sin \theta=\frac{2\sqrt{ 6 }}{5}$
>
>Now use this to solve the other functions with reciprocals and the other [[Pythagorean Identities]]
>$\tan \theta=\frac{\sin \theta}{\cos \theta}$
>$\tan \theta=\frac{\frac{2\sqrt{ 6 }}{5}}{\frac{1}{5}}=2\sqrt{ 6 }$
>$\sec \theta=5$
>$\csc \theta=\frac{5}{2\sqrt{ 6 }}=\frac{5\sqrt{ 6 }}{12}$
>$\cot \theta=\frac{1}{2\sqrt{ 6 }}=\frac{\sqrt{ 6 }}{12}$
>
>_Simple, right?_

>[!note] Reciprocals
>When using the reciprocal of, for example $\tan \theta=\frac{\frac{-2}{5}}{-\frac{\sqrt{ 21 }}{5}}=\frac{2}{\sqrt{ 21 }}=\frac{2\sqrt{ 21 }}{21}$ don't bother using the end point if the denominators are the same, because you'll just have to re-rationalize.
>
>So instead, use one step before at $\frac{2}{\sqrt{ 21 }}$ and find the reciprocal of that.
>$\cot \theta=\frac{\sqrt{ 21 }}{2}$

>[!faq]- Write in terms of SINE and COSINE, then simplify so that __no quotients__ appear in the final expression. $\sec \theta \cot \theta \sin \theta$
>First, note that it tells you to write in terms of _SINE_ and _COSINE_ so convert and try that out.
>$=\frac{1}{\cos \theta}*\frac{\cos \theta}{\sin \theta}*\sin \theta$
>Which can be simplified to just $= 1$

>[!faq]- Simplify $\frac{\tan(-\theta)}{\sec \theta}$
>Know that $\tan(-\theta)=-\tan \theta$
>So $=\frac{-\tan \theta}{\sec \theta}$
>
>Convert to _SINE_ and _COSINE_
>$=\frac{-\frac{\sin \theta}{\cos \theta}}{\frac{1}{\cos \theta}}$
>
>Which results in $=-\sin \theta$

# References