# Summary
# Related
Prev - [[5.1 Fundamental Identities]]
# Content

>[!note] What you are doing
>You are __NOT__ trying to balance the equations!!! Keep this in mind.

>[!info] Strategy
>1. Use [[5.1 Fundamental Identities]] to try to rewrite the more complex side to look like the simpler side.
>2. If 1 doesn't work, try rewriting all trig functions in terms of _SINE_ and _COSINE_(One side only, leave the other side alone).
>3. You may need to factor or combine fractions.
>4. Keep goal in mind and pick identities accordingly.
>5. If you need $\cos^{2}$ and you have $1+\sin \theta$ multiplying the numerator and denominator by $1-\sin \theta$ can make this happen.

>[!faq]- Given: $1+\sin \theta$ so do:
>$$\frac{(1+\sin \theta)(1-\sin \theta)}{1-\sin \theta}=\frac{1-\sin^{2}\theta}{1-\sin \theta}=\frac{\cos^{2}\theta}{1-\sin \theta}$$

>[!faq]- Verify: $\frac{\tan \theta}{\sec \theta}=\sin \theta$
>Turn em into SINE and COSINE!
>$$\frac{\frac{\sin \theta}{\cos \theta}}{\frac{1}{\cos \theta}}$$Simplify
>$\sin \theta=\sin \theta$ Which is the same, so you've verified it!

>[!faq]- Verify $\frac{\cot^{2}-1}{1+\cot^{2}t}=1-2\sin^{2}t$
>First, you'll notice that Cotangent doesn't have a variable, that will need to be changed somehow.
>You'll likely want to try and convert to Sines and Cosines
>
>$$\frac{\frac{\cos^{2}t}{\sin^{2}t}-1}{1+\frac{\cos^{2}t}{\sin^{2}t}}$$
>Multiply by reciprocal, which is $\sin^{2}t$
>$$\frac{\cos^2t-\sin^2t}{\sin^2t+\cos^2t}$$
>Simplify denominator using Pythagorean Identity
>$$\frac{1-\sin^2t-\sin^2t}{1}$$
>
>Which simplifies to $1-2\sin^2t$

# References